→thesis: I want to learn about and apply deep learning for natural language processing.

I remember vividly the first time I learned about word2vec. Before it, representing language for computers in practice for the most part either consisted of calculating frequencies, where words are represented as discrete tokens and nothing more, or it consisted of performing large-scale feature engineering, where resources like wordnet tried to capture word meaning in a massive, carefully constructed graph of word relations. But word2vec was fundamentally different: you could learn distributed representations of words that captured semantic information at an unprecedently nuanced level. It prompted me to read more, and I learned about the surprising power of techniques like neural machine translation using sequence to sequence models and document embedding approaches like Latent Dirichlet Allocation and Doc2vec. I had read countless thinkers like Wittgenstein and Nelson Mandela and Herb Clark who had all proclaimed that language was not just a code that people used to communicate; it held in it the very deepest components of culture and humanity. But the sheer scale and complexity of language seemed to close the door to computational approaches' ability to actually comprehend that depth, requiring academics to specialize only in the fields of language that they could hope to consume in a lifetime. It became clear to me that this idea of a distributed representation learned from data had essentially opened that door, for it was finally apparent that computers could potentially understand language in all its subtlety.  That idea excited me so much, it prompted me to totally change my careerpath. Natural Language processing was going to change the world, and I was going to a be part of it.




    For me, t

    iThat moment was when I realized that  when I decided wholeheartedly that I wanted to work on Machine Learning

    →How Flipside introduced me to research and changed my outlook on it.
    →What the paper I’m finishing right now is on:
    →How I’m interested in human-centered machine learning, and how NLP combined with my experience relates to that.

